To fetch ALTERNATE records from a table. (Odd Numbered)
To select ALTERNATE records from a table. (Even numbered)
Find the 3rd MAX salary in the emp table.
Find the 3rd MIN salary in the emp table.
Select FIRST n records from a table (Note: Based on the user input, query has to pick the record from the table dynamically)
Select LAST n records from a table (Note: Based on the user input, query has to pick the record from the table dynamically)
List dept no., Dept name for all the departments in which there are no employees in the department.
How to get 3 Max salaries ?
How to get 3 Min salaries ?
How to get nth max salaries ?
Select DISTINCT RECORDS from emp table.
How to delete duplicate rows in a table?
Count of number of employees in department wise
Suppose there is annual salary information provided by emp table. How to fetch monthly salary of
each and every employee?
Select all record from emp table where deptno =10 or 40
Select all record from emp table where deptno=30 and sal>1500.
Select all record from emp where job not in SALESMAN or CLERK.
Select all record from emp where ename in 'BLAKE','SCOTT','KING'and'FORD'.
Select all records where ename starts with ‘S’ and its lenth is 6 char.
Select all records where ename may be any no of character but it should end with ‘R’
Count MGR and their salary in emp table.
In emp table add comm+sal as total sal
Select any salary <3000 from emp table.
Select all salary <3000 from emp table
Select all the employee group by deptno and sal in descending order.
How can I create an empty table emp1 with same structure as emp?
How to retrive record where sal between 1000 to 2000?
Select all records where dept no of both emp and dept table matches.
If there are two tables emp1 and emp2, and both have common record. How can I fetch all the recods
but common records only once?
How to fetch only common records from two tables emp and emp1?
How can I retrive all records of emp1 those should not present in emp2?
Count the totalsa deptno wise where more than 2 employees exist.