Techie Smiles - 25032023

WHERE:
Select all employee whose sal is greater than 2000
Select all employee with a sal less than 1500
Select all employee who joined after January 1st, 1995
Select all employees who work in the Sales department
Select all employees who have commision

LIKE:
Select all employee whose name starts with 'B'
Select all Job that contain the word 'MAN' in it
Select all employees whose name ends with 'E'
Select all employees whose name ends with 'TT'
Select all employees whose name starts with 'Smi' and ends with 'th'
Select all employees whose name start in [A-E]

AND:
Select all employee whose sal is between 500 and 1050
Select all employee whose joining date is 1996-03-26 and commision is NOT NULL
Select all employees who work in the Sales department and have a salary greater than 1800
Select all employees who work in the Sales department and have a last name starting with 'D'

IN:
Select all employees whose salary is in 500, 2000, 1500.
Select all employees who works as Salesman and Analyst.
Select all employees whose job title is either 'Manager' or 'Clerk'.
Select all employees who have commission as 0

OR:

Select all employees who live in either New York or California, or have a last name starting with 'S'

BETWEEN:
Select all Salary is between 4000 and 1000.


IS NULL:
Select all employees who have no manager.
Select all employees who have no commision.
Select all employees who have not been assigned a department.
Select all employees who have not provided a joining date.

CONCATENATION:
Combine the ename and 'No last name' value for all employees into a single field called 'full_name'.
Combine the ename, manager no, department by giving space between each field for all employees into a single field called 'Employee & Manager details'.
Combine the ename, salary by giving space between field for all employees into a single field called 'Employee salary details'.


ARITHMETIC OPERATORS:
Add 10% to the salary field of all employees.
Increase the salary of all employees by 1000 rupees.
Calculate the yearly salary of each employee
Calculate the Weekly salary of each employee
Calculate the Daily wages of each employee.



